Machine learning guide 10.13 (#296)
SoftwareAG/c8y-docs: content/machine-learning/api-reference-bundle/matrixprofile.md

---
title: Matrix profile
layout: redirect
weight: 30

aliases:
  - /predictive-analytics/api-reference/#matrixprofile
---

Operations for matrix profile.

>**Info:** An active subscription of the Nyoka microservice is required to leverage the matrix profile APIs.

### GET – Generate matrix profile using historical time series data

```
{{url}}/service/zementis/matrixprofile
```

Get the matrix profile of a specific historical time series data.

> **ROLES & PERMISSIONS**: ROLE_MACHINE_LEARNING_ADMIN

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**ROLES & PERMISSIONS**: ROLE_MACHINE_LEARNING_READ
```
This API should be accessible to users with ROLE_MACHINE_LEARNING_READ.

|HEADERS||
|:---|:---|
|Authorization|{{auth}}

|PARAMS||
|:---|:---|

> |windowSize (integer)| Optional query parameter to setup the size of subsequence window size. Default subsequence window size is 5 if not provided. </br>Note that: <ul><li>The window size must be less than or equal to the length of historical data that is retrieved according to the date range defined in ```dateFrom``` and ```dateTo```.</li><li>The window size must be greater than 2 when computing the z-normalized Euclidean distance. A windowSize=1 produces a standard deviation of zero. For windowSize=2, both the mean and standard deviation for any given subsequence are identical and hence the z-normalization for any sequence will either be [-1., 1.] or [1., -1.]. Thus, the z-normalized Euclidean distance will very likely be zero between any subsequence and its nearest neighbor assuming that the time series is large enough to contain both scenarios.</li></ul>

Reviewer 2: the size of subsequence window size > the size of the subsequence window
Default > The default

     --header "Authorization: {{auth}} \
     --header "Accept: application/json"
```

**Example Response**

```
200 - OK

{
  "time": [
    "2021-12-20T23:50:53.045Z",
    "2021-12-20T23:50:54.537Z",
    "2021-12-20T23:50:56.210Z",
    "2021-12-20T23:50:57.695Z",
    "2021-12-20T23:50:59.177Z",
    "2021-12-20T23:51:00.641Z",
    "2021-12-20T23:51:02.132Z",
    "2021-12-20T23:51:03.593Z",
    "2021-12-20T23:51:05.062Z",
    "2021-12-20T23:51:06.556Z",
    "2021-12-20T23:51:08.019Z",
    "2021-12-20T23:51:09.504Z",
    "2021-12-20T23:51:10.970Z",
    "2021-12-20T23:51:12.407Z",
    "2021-12-20T23:51:13.836Z",
    "2021-12-20T23:51:15.323Z",
    "2021-12-20T23:51:16.906Z",
    "2021-12-20T23:51:18.407Z"
  ],
  "matrix_profile": [
    0,
    0,
    0,
    "Infinity",
    0,
    0,
    0,
    null,
    null,
    null,
    null,
    null,
    null,
    null,
    null,
    null,
    null,
    null
  ],
  "matrix_profile_index": [
    4,
    5,
    6,
    -1,
    0,
    1,
    2,
    null,
    null,
    null,
    null,
    null,
    null,
    null,
    null,
    null,
    null,
    null
  ]
}
```

> >**Note:**

Reviewer 2: **Note:** > **Info:**

> > The delta between selected `historical time series data (T)` and `generated matrix_profile (mp)` shown as null values at the end of the `matrix_profile` is the nature of work from sliding window computation. The size of `matrix_profile (mp)` is smaller than size of `historical time series data (T)` according to the `subsequence window size (m)`.

Reviewer 2: than size > than the size

> > The delta between selected `historical time series data (T)` and `generated matrix_profile (mp)` shown as null values at the end of the `matrix_profile` is the nature of work from sliding window computation. The size of `matrix_profile (mp)` is smaller than the size of `historical time series data (T)` according to the `subsequence window size (m)`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The delta between the size of selected time series data and generated matrix profile is shown as null values at the end of the `matrix_profile`. This delta occurs because of how sliding window computation works. The size of `matrix_profile` is smaller than the size of historical time series data by `windowSize`.
```

> > The delta between the selected **historical time series data (T)** and the generated **matrix_profile (mp)**, shown as null values at the end of the *matrix_profile*, is usual for sliding window computation. The size of the **matrix_profile (mp)** is smaller than the size of the **historical time series data (T)** according to the **subsequence window size (m)**.

Reviewer 2: Not sure about the highlighting here. Why all this bold? Below (row 121) we have italics. Probably we should use code formatting instead here.
